And the starting lineup for your 2012-13

is:

,

,

,

and

.

Well, maybe.

When the Blazers open training camp one week from today at the practice facility in Tualatin, that's the lineup new coach

will debut. The 29 days that follow will determine whether it sticks when the Blazers open the season on Halloween against the Los Angeles Lakers at the Rose Garden.

Lillard, Matthews, Batum and Aldridge are no-brainers. Lillard was named the Las Vegas Summer League MVP in July and has been anointed as the franchise's Point Guard of the Future heading into his highly anticipated rookie season. Aldridge, Matthews and Batum are established NBA starters. But there were -- and likely will continue to be -- questions about who starts at center.

And although this Blazers season will be littered with a heavy dose of new -- from coach to general manager to an overhauled roster that features five rookies -- Stotts says he will open training camp with Hickson at center, in part, because of his history with the team.

"J.J. is the incumbent," Stotts said. "I'm not saying he's going to be the starting center opening night. We'll have to see how training camp goes, see how the preseason goes, and then we'll make that determination. Meyers (Leonard) has played very well (this summer). But it's just like politics: J.J. has been here, he's the returner, so going into it he has the advantage."

Who starts at center is just one of many questions looming over the franchise as the Blazers prepare for a rebuilding season that is sure to feature plenty of bumps and bruises along the way. The Blazers' 15-man roster averages just 25.0 years old, likely making it one of the youngest in the NBA this season.

Stotts will open his first Blazers camp with back-to-back two-a-day practices before settling in to single workouts on Friday for the remainder of the preseason. Because the team is so young, Stotts said his camp will feature a surplus of fundamental work and teaching. And because the Blazers' coaching staff is almost entirely new -- assistant Kaleb Canales is the only holdover -- it's only natural to expect a steep learning curve in the early going.

As Stotts finished up an in-studio radio interview Tuesday morning and hopped into a car bound for the practice facility, he indirectly acknowledged the challenge ahead in a phone interview with The Oregonian.

"I haven't lost a game and I haven't screwed up a substitution yet," he said, laughing. "So all is well."

But eventually there will be scrutiny, starting with his starting lineup. Once the Blazers struck out on All-Star center Roy Hibbert in free agency, GM Neil Olshey recalibrated expectations for 2012-13 and jumped feet-first into a clear rebuild.

The Blazers

Key dates

Monday, Oct. 1:

Media day

Tuesday, Oct. 2:

Training camp opens

Wednesday, Oct. 10:

Preseason opener at L.A. Lakers

Wednesday, Oct. 31:

Season opener vs. L.A. Lakers

Ticket info.

Single-game tickets go on sale at noon Monday, exclusively at trailblazers.com. At 2 p.m. Monday, they will be available at all ticket outlets, the Blazers' box office and by phone at 503-797-9600. Season tickets remain available, as are four separate 11-game ticket packages that guarantee access to high-demand games against teams such as the Lakers and Miami Heat.

The youngest and rawest position on the roster is center, where only 10-year veteran Jared Jeffries, who is not expected to be a prominent contributor, has extensive NBA experience outside of Hickson. Leonard, 20, has just two college seasons on his resume, and another contender to start, British big man Joel Freeland, also is a rookie. That leaves Hickson, who excelled for the Blazers in a 19-game audition late last season, as the frontrunner.

Ideally, Hickson would play backup power forward behind Aldridge, giving the Blazers a second-string weapon they have lacked for years. But Hickson and Aldridge revealed good chemistry playing alongside each other during brief spurts last season, and Hickson's combination of ability and experience -- he's started 158 games in his five-year career -- make him a logical frontcourt mate for Aldridge.

But with just seven returning players from last season's team, it would be illogical to assume too much about this team, and Stotts' player rotation is a work in progress. In addition to center, questions loom at backup shooting guard.

Third-year guard Elliot Williams tore his left Achilles tendon during a voluntary workout on Sept. 11 and will miss the entire season. Stotts said he will look at a variety of ways to compensate for Williams' loss, including playing rookie Will Barton and second-year combo guard Nolan Smith.

But two of the more intriguing options Stotts says he will consider are sliding Batum over to shooting guard in the second unit and playing veteran point guard Ronnie Price alongside Lillard in the same backcourt. The Dallas Mavericks played Jason Terry and J.J. Barea in the same backcourt while Stotts was an assistant coach in Dallas, and he said he likes the offensive mismatches created by featuring two backcourt players with ballhandling and scoring ability.

As for Batum, Stotts said he is intrigued by the idea of the Blazers' $45 million man anchoring the backcourt when the Blazers go with a big lineup.

"I think that'll be a process," Stotts said. "I'll play around with it and see what we can do. Nothing is set in stone, but I think we have two or three options I'll look at."

The Blazers also will give a serious look at keeping Adam Morrison all season. The former No. 3 overall NBA draft pick and one-time college star is a nonroster invite to training camp, but Stotts said Morrison will be given a chance to make the roster.

Morrison has battled inconsistency and injuries -- including a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee -- in his career and has not played in the NBA since the 2010 playoffs. But after two stints overseas and excelling in the 2012 Las Vegas Summer League, where he averaged 20.0 points and 5.0 rebounds for the Clippers, the Blazers could be Morrison's path back to the league.

"He wouldn't be here if he didn't have a legitimate chance to make the team," Stotts said of Morrison. "He's had a bumpy start to his career, but he's a talented player who can put the ball in the basket. He's going to have every opportunity to make the team."

Notes:

The Blazers will wear

this season, which will be unveiled during their home opener on Halloween against the Lakers. The team plans to wear the new threads 8-10 times this season, but only once at the Rose Garden, and fans are encouraged to wear red to the Lakers game as well. ... Stotts said Williams' season-ending injury was a freak accident and was not caused by a collision with another player. "There wasn't any contact," Stotts said. "It was just one of those things where he made a quick move and tore the Achilles." ... It does not seem as though Stotts has any intention of tempering enthusiasm for Lillard, who is on most NBA pundits' short lists for Rookie of the Year consideration. "What he did in Vegas wasn't a fluke," Stotts said of Lillard, who averaged 26.5 points, 5.6 assists and 4.0 rebounds at summer league. "He's very talented."

--

; follow him on